README.md, before:

# Platform Health

Lightweight & extensible platform health monitoring.

## Overview

Platform Health is a simple client/server system for lightweight health monitoring of platform components and systems.

The Platform Health client (`phc`) sends a gRPC health check request to a Platform Health server which is configured to probe a set of network services. Probes run asynchronously on the server (subject to configurable timeouts), with the accumulated response returned to the client.

## Providers

Probes use a compile-time [provider plugin system](pkg/provider) that supports extension to monitoring of arbitrary services. Integrated providers include:

* [`system`](pkg/provider/system): Hierarchical grouping of related health checks with status aggregation
* [`satellite`](pkg/provider/satellite): A separate satellite instance of the Platform Health server
* [`tcp`](pkg/provider/tcp): TCP connectivity checks
* [`tls`](pkg/provider/tls): TLS handshake and certificate verification
* [`http`](pkg/provider/http): HTTP(S) health checks with CEL-based response validation, full REST/GraphQL API support, and TLS details
* [`grpc`](pkg/provider/grpc): gRPC Health v1 service status checks
* [`kubernetes`](pkg/provider/kubernetes): Kubernetes resource existence and readiness
* [`helm`](pkg/provider/helm): Helm release existence and deployment status
* [`vault`](pkg/provider/vault): [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) cluster initialization and seal status

Each provider implements the `Instance` interface, with the health of each instance obtained asynchronously, and contributing to the overall response.

## Installation

### macOS/Linux

```bash
brew install isometry/tap/platform-health
```

```console
$ ph server -l & sleep 1 && ph client && kill %1
{"status":"HEALTHY", "duration":"0.000004833s"}
```

### Kubernetes

#### Install via `helm` chart

```console
helm upgrade \
    --install platform-health \
    -n platform-health --create-namespace \
    oci://ghcr.io/isometry/charts/platform-health
```

#### Install via `kubectl`

```bash
kubectl create configmap platform-health --from-file=platform-health.yaml=/dev/stdin <<-EOF
components:
  ssh@localhost:
    type: tcp
    host: localhost
    port: 22
  gmail:
    type: tls
    host: smtp.gmail.com
    port: 465
  google:
    type: http
    url: https://google.com
EOF

kubectl create deployment platform-health --image ghcr.io/isometry/platform-health:latest --port=8080

kubectl patch deployment platform-health --patch-file=/dev/stdin <<-EOF
  spec:
    template:
      spec:
        volumes:
          - name: config
            configMap:
              name: platform-health
        containers:
          - name: platform-health
            args:
              - -vv
            volumeMounts:
              - name: config
                mountPath: /config
EOF

kubectl create service loadbalancer platform-health --tcp=8080:8080
```

## Usage

### Client

```bash
# Check all components
ph client

# Check specific components
ph client -c google -c github

# Check with hierarchical path (system/component)
ph client -c fluxcd/source-controller

# Connect to remote server
ph client prod:8080 -c google
```

### One-Shot Mode

Run health checks once and exit without starting a server:

```bash
ph check

# Check specific components only
ph check -c google -c fluxcd/source-controller
```

This is useful for:
- Validating configuration files
- Local health check verification
- CI/CD pipeline integration
- Testing specific components

### Ad-hoc Checks

Create and run health checks without a configuration file:

```bash
# TCP connectivity check
ph check tcp --host example.com --port 443

# HTTP health check
ph check http --url https://api.example.com/health

# HTTP check with CEL expression
ph check http --url https://api.example.com/health \
  --check 'response.status == 200'

# TLS certificate check
ph check tls --host example.com --port 443
```

### Context Inspection

Inspect the CEL evaluation context for debugging expressions:

```bash
# View context for a configured component
ph context my-app

# View context for nested system components
ph context fluxcd/source-controller

# View context for ad-hoc provider
ph context http --url https://api.example.com/health
```

## Configuration

The Platform Health server reads configuration from a YAML file. By default, it searches for `platform-health.yaml` in standard config paths (`.` and `/config`).

You can customize this with:
- `--config-path`: Override config file search paths (can be specified multiple times)
- `--config-name`: Change the config file name (without extension)

```bash
# Use custom config file
ph server --config-name myconfig

# Add search paths
ph server --config-path /custom/path --config-path ./local
```

### Configuration Structure

All health check components are defined under the `components` key:

```yaml
components:
  <component-name>:
    type: <provider-type>
    <provider-specific-config>
```

Component names can contain any characters valid in YAML keys, but should avoid `/` which is used for path-filtered queries. The `type` field specifies which provider to use, and the remaining fields are provider-specific configuration.

### Example

The following configuration will monitor that /something/ is listening on `tcp/22` of localhost; validate connectivity and TLS handshake to the Gmail SSL mail-submission port; and validate that Google is accessible and returning a 200 status code:

```yaml
components:
  ssh@localhost:
    type: tcp
    host: localhost
    port: 22
  gmail:
    type: tls
    host: smtp.gmail.com
    port: 465
  google:
    type: http
    spec:
      url: https://google.com
  api-health:
    type: http
    spec:
      url: https://api.example.com/health
      method: GET
    checks:
      - check: 'response.status == 200'
        message: "Expected HTTP 200"
      - check: 'response.json.status == "healthy"'
        message: "Service unhealthy"
```

### Hierarchical Grouping

Use the `system` provider to group related checks:

```yaml
components:
  fluxcd:
    type: system
    components:
      source-controller:
        type: kubernetes
        resource:
          kind: deployment
          namespace: flux-system
          name: source-controller
      kustomize-controller:
        type: kubernetes
        resource:
          kind: deployment
          namespace: flux-system
          name: kustomize-controller
```

The system is reported "healthy" only if all sub-components are healthy.

### CEL Expressions

Several providers support CEL (Common Expression Language) expressions for custom health check validation:

- [`http`](pkg/provider/http): HTTP request and response details with JSON parsing for REST/GraphQL API validation
- [`tls`](pkg/provider/tls): TLS connection and certificate details
- [`kubernetes`](pkg/provider/kubernetes): Full resource(s), including metadata, spec, status, etc.
- [`helm`](pkg/provider/helm): Release info, chart metadata, values and manifests

Use `ph context` to inspect the evaluation context available to your expressions. See [pkg/checks/README.md](pkg/checks/README.md) for CEL syntax examples and patterns.

Commit message:

feat(provider): add per-instance timeout override to all providers
* Update provider docs and flag definitions to support per-instance
  timeout overrides.
* Refactor flag kind constants for consistency.
* Improve error reporting for component resolution.
* Add CertPool helper to tls provider.
* Clarify config include merge semantics in docs.

README.md, after:

# Platform Health

Lightweight & extensible platform health monitoring.

## Overview

Platform Health is a simple client/server system for lightweight health monitoring of platform components and systems.

The Platform Health client (`ph client`) sends a gRPC health check request to a Platform Health server which is configured to probe a set of network services. Probes run asynchronously on the server (subject to configurable timeouts), with the accumulated response returned to the client.

## Providers

Probes use a compile-time [provider plugin system](pkg/provider) that supports extension to monitoring of arbitrary services. Integrated providers include:

* [`system`](pkg/provider/system): Hierarchical grouping of related health checks with status aggregation
* [`satellite`](pkg/provider/satellite): A separate satellite instance of the Platform Health server
* [`tcp`](pkg/provider/tcp): TCP connectivity checks
* [`tls`](pkg/provider/tls): TLS handshake and certificate verification
* [`http`](pkg/provider/http): HTTP(S) health checks with CEL-based response validation, full REST/GraphQL API support, and TLS details
* [`grpc`](pkg/provider/grpc): gRPC Health v1 service status checks
* [`kubernetes`](pkg/provider/kubernetes): Kubernetes resource existence and readiness
* [`helm`](pkg/provider/helm): Helm release existence and deployment status
* [`vault`](pkg/provider/vault): [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) cluster initialization and seal status

Each provider implements the `Instance` interface, with the health of each instance obtained asynchronously, and contributing to the overall response.

## Installation

### macOS/Linux

```bash
brew install isometry/tap/platform-health
```

```console
$ ph server -l & sleep 1 && ph client && kill %1
{"status":"HEALTHY", "duration":"0.000004833s"}
```

### Kubernetes

#### Install via `helm` chart

```console
helm upgrade \
    --install platform-health \
    -n platform-health --create-namespace \
    oci://ghcr.io/isometry/charts/platform-health
```

#### Install via `kubectl`

```bash
kubectl create configmap platform-health --from-file=platform-health.yaml=/dev/stdin <<-EOF
components:
  ssh@localhost:
    type: tcp
    spec:
      host: localhost
      port: 22
  gmail:
    type: tls
    spec:
      host: smtp.gmail.com
      port: 465
  google:
    type: http
    spec:
      url: https://google.com
EOF

kubectl create deployment platform-health --image ghcr.io/isometry/platform-health:latest --port=8080

kubectl patch deployment platform-health --patch-file=/dev/stdin <<-EOF
  spec:
    template:
      spec:
        volumes:
          - name: config
            configMap:
              name: platform-health
        containers:
          - name: platform-health
            args:
              - -vv
            volumeMounts:
              - name: config
                mountPath: /config
EOF

kubectl create service loadbalancer platform-health --tcp=8080:8080
```

## Usage

### Client

```bash
# Check all components
ph client

# Check specific components
ph client -c google -c github

# Check with hierarchical path (system/component)
ph client -c fluxcd/source-controller

# Connect to remote server
ph client prod:8080 -c google
```

### One-Shot Mode

Run health checks once and exit without starting a server:

```bash
ph check

# Check specific components only
ph check -c google -c fluxcd/source-controller
```

This is useful for:
- Validating configuration files
- Local health check verification
- CI/CD pipeline integration
- Testing specific components

### Ad-hoc Checks

Create and run health checks without a configuration file:

```bash
# TCP connectivity check
ph check tcp --host example.com --port 443

# HTTP health check
ph check http --url https://api.example.com/health

# HTTP check with CEL expression
ph check http --url https://api.example.com/health \
  --check 'response.status == 200'

# TLS certificate check
ph check tls --host example.com --port 443
```

### Context Inspection

Inspect the CEL evaluation context for debugging expressions:

```bash
# View context for a configured component
ph context my-app

# View context for nested system components
ph context fluxcd/source-controller

# View context for ad-hoc provider
ph context http --url https://api.example.com/health
```

## Configuration

The Platform Health server reads configuration from a YAML file. By default, it searches for `platform-health.yaml` in standard config paths (`.` and `/config`).

You can customize this with:
- `--config-path`: Override config file search paths (can be specified multiple times)
- `--config-name`: Change the config file name (without extension)

```bash
# Use custom config file
ph server --config-name myconfig

# Add search paths
ph server --config-path /custom/path --config-path ./local
```

### Configuration Structure

All health check components are defined under the `components` key:

```yaml
components:
  <component-name>:
    type: <provider-type>      # required
    spec:                      # provider-specific configuration
      <key>: <value>
    checks: [...]              # optional CEL expressions
    timeout: <duration>        # optional per-instance timeout
    components: {...}          # optional nested children (system provider)
```

Component names can contain any characters valid in YAML keys, but should avoid `/` which is used for path-filtered queries. The `type` field specifies which provider to use, and provider-specific configuration goes under `spec`.

### Example

The following configuration will monitor that /something/ is listening on `tcp/22` of localhost; validate connectivity and TLS handshake to the Gmail SSL mail-submission port; and validate that Google is accessible and returning a 200 status code:

```yaml
components:
  ssh@localhost:
    type: tcp
    spec:
      host: localhost
      port: 22
  gmail:
    type: tls
    spec:
      host: smtp.gmail.com
      port: 465
  google:
    type: http
    spec:
      url: https://google.com
  api-health:
    type: http
    spec:
      url: https://api.example.com/health
      method: GET
    checks:
      - check: 'response.status == 200'
        message: "Expected HTTP 200"
      - check: 'response.json.status == "healthy"'
        message: "Service unhealthy"
```

### Hierarchical Grouping

Use the `system` provider to group related checks:

```yaml
components:
  fluxcd:
    type: system
    components:
      source-controller:
        type: kubernetes
        spec:
          kind: Deployment
          namespace: flux-system
          name: source-controller
      kustomize-controller:
        type: kubernetes
        spec:
          kind: Deployment
          namespace: flux-system
          name: kustomize-controller
```

The system is reported "healthy" only if all sub-components are healthy.

### CEL Expressions

Several providers support CEL (Common Expression Language) expressions for custom health check validation:

- [`http`](pkg/provider/http): HTTP request and response details with JSON parsing for REST/GraphQL API validation
- [`tls`](pkg/provider/tls): TLS connection and certificate details
- [`kubernetes`](pkg/provider/kubernetes): Full resource(s), including metadata, spec, status, etc.
- [`helm`](pkg/provider/helm): Release info, chart metadata, values and manifests

Use `ph context` to inspect the evaluation context available to your expressions. See [pkg/checks/README.md](pkg/checks/README.md) for CEL syntax examples and patterns.
