pkg/provider/satellite/README.md, before:

# Satellite Provider

The Satellite Provider extends the platform-health server to enable delegation of health checks to another platform-health instance. It does this by querying the configured instance(s) and encapsulating the results.

## Usage

Once the Satellite Provider is configured, any query to the platform health server will trigger validation of the configured Satellite instances. A instance is reported "healthy" if-and-only-if the satellite instance reports all of *its* instances as "healthy".

## Configuration

The Satellite Provider is configured through the platform-health server's configuration file. Each instance is defined with its name as the YAML key.

* `type` (required): Must be `satellite`.
* `host` (required): The hostname or IP address of the Satellite service to monitor.
* `port` (default: `8080`): The port number of the Satellite service to monitor.
* `tls` (default: `false`, unless `port` is `443`): Enable TLS for the gRPC dialer.
* `insecure` (default: `false`): Disable certificate validation when TLS is enabled.

### Example

```yaml
example:
  type: satellite
  host: satellite.example.com
  port: 8080
```

In this example, the Satellite Provider will return the health of the platform-health server and its instances running on `satellite.example.com:8080`.

Commit message:

feat: kubernetes label selectors & helm CEL checks (#141)
* kubernetes: resource label selectors and multi-resource CEL checks
* kubernetes: fix group defaults for common kinds
* helm: CEL checks with access to release and chart metadata
* satellite: static component filtering
* tests: extend coverage
* docs: formatting
* chore(deps): bump all

pkg/provider/satellite/README.md, after:

# Satellite Provider

The Satellite Provider extends the platform-health server to enable delegation of health checks to another platform-health instance. It does this by querying the configured instance(s) and encapsulating the results.

## Usage

Once the Satellite Provider is configured, any query to the platform health server will trigger validation of the configured Satellite instances. A instance is reported "healthy" if-and-only-if the satellite instance reports all of _its_ instances as "healthy".

## Configuration

The Satellite Provider is configured through the platform-health server's configuration file. Each instance is defined with its name as the YAML key.

- `type` (required): Must be `satellite`.
- `host` (required): The hostname or IP address of the Satellite service to monitor.
- `port` (default: `8080`): The port number of the Satellite service to monitor.
- `tls` (default: `false`, unless `port` is `443`): Enable TLS for the gRPC dialer.
- `insecure` (default: `false`): Disable certificate validation when TLS is enabled.
- `components` (optional): Allowlist of component names that can be requested from the downstream server. Acts as default when no components requested, and validates requests (unlisted components return unhealthy).

### Example

```yaml
example:
  type: satellite
  host: satellite.example.com
  port: 8080
```

In this example, the Satellite Provider will return the health of the platform-health server and its instances running on `satellite.example.com:8080`.
